Let's create an IDS rule together.
Just a quick note, for this walk-through,
we're going to use a text editor to practice the syntax.
As an analyst in a junior role,
you'll most likely recommend a rule to the senior analysts
or the network administrator who would then implement the change.
We're creating a rule alerting for HTTPS traffic.
Coming from any source,
our destination IP is 10.15.11.3.
That's HTTPS port 443.
We want the administrator to be notified of this traffic,
so we began with alert.
Next we have TCP for the type of traffic.
We want to be notified if the traffic is coming from any IP, any port.
The traffic is inbound.
Our destination IP address is 10.15.11.3.
We're using HTTPS, that would be port 443.
Then we have our message.
In this case, we're alerting on HTTPS,
and we add test, just for the rule.
If you recall, the SID is the identifier,
it has to be one million or higher.
The first 999,999 are reserved for native snort rules.